=head1 Bug Report Policy

There is currently no online bug tracking system. Known bugs are listed in the BUGLIST file in the distribution and
a list will be kept on the http://eprints.org/ site.

If you identify a bug or "issue" (issues are not bugs, but are things which could be clearer or better), and it's not already listed on the site, please let us know at support@eprints.org - include all the information you can: what version of eprints (see SystemSettings.pm if you're not sure), what operating system etc.

=head1 Where to go with Questions and Suggestions

There are some mailing lists for EPrints
 which may be the right place to ask general questions and start discussions on broad design issues.

=head2 eprints-tech

eprints-tech is the technical mailing list for people who want to argue over XML processing and which libraries to use. UNIXy people.

To subscribe send an email to majordomo@ecs.soton.ac.uk
containing the text 

 subscribe eprints-tech

=head2 eprints-underground

eprints-underground is the non-technical mailing list for people who actually care what the system does, not how. This is for discussion of metadata, politics (how to get people to fill the damn data in) and what people actually plan to use the eprints for.

To subscribe send an email to majordomo@ecs.soton.ac.uk containing the text 

 subscribe eprints-underground

=head2 OAI Lists

The Open Archives Protocol has some mailing lists of its own, see the http://www.openarchives.org/ site for information on these.
