# List of relationships contributors can have to an item.

http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/ACT   # Actor
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/ADP   # Adapter
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/ANM   # Animator
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/ANN   # Annotator
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/APP   # Applicant
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/ARC   # Architect
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/ARR   # Arranger
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/ART   # Artist
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/ASG   # Assignee
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/ASN   # Associated name
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/ATT   # Attributed name
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/AUC   # Auctioneer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/AUT   # Author
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/AQT   # Author in quotations or text extracts
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/AFT   # Author of afterword, colophon, etc.
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/AUD   # Author of dialog
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/AUI   # Author of introduction, etc.
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/AUS   # Author of screenplay, etc.
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/ANT   # Bibliographic antecedent
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/BND   # Binder
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/BDD   # Binding designer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/BKD   # Book designer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/BKP   # Book producer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/BJD   # Bookjacket designer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/BPD   # Bookplate designer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/BSL   # Bookseller
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CLL   # Calligrapher
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CTG   # Cartographer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CNS   # Censor
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CHR   # Choreographer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CNG   # Cinematographer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CLI   # Client
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CLB   # Collaborator
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/COL   # Collector
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CLT   # Collotyper
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CMM   # Commentator
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CWT   # Commentator for written text
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/COM   # Compiler
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CPL   # Complainant
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CPT   # Complainant-appellant
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CPE   # Complainant-appellee
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CMP   # Composer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CMT   # Compositor
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CCP   # Conceptor
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CND   # Conductor
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CSL   # Consultant
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CSP   # Consultant to a project
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/COS   # Contestant
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/COT   # Contestant-appellant
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/COE   # Contestant-appellee
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CTS   # Contestee
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CTT   # Contestee-appellant
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CTE   # Contestee-appellee
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CTR   # Contractor
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CTB   # Contributor
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CPC   # Copyright claimant
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CPH   # Copyright holder
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CRR   # Corrector
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CRP   # Correspondent
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CST   # Costume designer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/COV   # Cover designer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CRE   # Creator
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/CUR   # Curator of an exhibition
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/DNC   # Dancer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/DTE   # Dedicatee
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/DTO   # Dedicator
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/DFD   # Defendant
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/DFT   # Defendant-appellant
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/DFE   # Defendant-appellee
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/DGG   # Degree grantor
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/DLN   # Delineator
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/DPC   # Depicted
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/DPT   # Depositor
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/DSR   # Designer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/DRT   # Director
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/DIS   # Dissertant
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/DST   # Distributor
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/DNR   # Donor
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/DRM   # Draftsman
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/DUB   # Dubious author
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/EDT   # Editor
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/ELT   # Electrotyper
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/ENG   # Engineer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/EGR   # Engraver
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/ETR   # Etcher
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/EXP   # Expert
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/FAC   # Facsimilist
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/FLM   # Film editor
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/FPY   # First party
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/FRG   # Forger
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/FMO   # Former owner
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/FND   # Funder
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/HNR   # Honoree
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/HST   # Host
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/ILU   # Illuminator
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/ILL   # Illustrator
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/INS   # Inscriber
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/ITR   # Instrumentalist
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/IVE   # Interviewee
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/IVR   # Interviewer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/INV   # Inventor
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/LSA   # Landscape architect
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/LEN   # Lender
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/LIL   # Libelant
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/LIT   # Libelant-appellant
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/LIE   # Libelant-appellee
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/LEL   # Libelee
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/LET   # Libelee-appellant
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/LEE   # Libelee-appellee
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/LBT   # Librettist
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/LSE   # Licensee
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/LSO   # Licensor
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/LGD   # Lighting designer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/LTG   # Lithographer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/LYR   # Lyricist
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/MFR   # Manufacturer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/MRK   # Markup editor
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/MDC   # Metadata contact
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/MTE   # Metal-engraver
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/MOD   # Moderator
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/MON   # Monitor
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/MUS   # Musician
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/NRT   # Narrator
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/OPN   # Opponent
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/ORM   # Organizer of meeting
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/ORG   # Originator
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/OTH   # Other
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/OWN   # Owner
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/PPM   # Papermaker
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/PTA   # Patent applicant
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/PTH   # Patent holder
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/PAT   # Patron
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/PRF   # Performer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/PHT   # Photographer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/PTF   # Plaintiff
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/PTT   # Plaintiff-appellant
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/PTE   # Plaintiff-appellee
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/PLT   # Platemaker
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/PRT   # Printer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/POP   # Printer of plates
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/PRM   # Printmaker
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/PRC   # Process contact
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/PRO   # Producer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/PRD   # Production personnel
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/PRG   # Programmer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/PFR   # Proofreader
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/PBL   # Publisher
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/PBD   # Publishing director
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/PPT   # Puppeteer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/RCP   # Recipient
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/RCE   # Recording engineer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/RED   # Redactor
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/REN   # Renderer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/RPT   # Reporter
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/RTH   # Research team head
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/RTM   # Research team member
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/RES   # Researcher
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/RSP   # Respondent
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/RST   # Respondent-appellant
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/RSE   # Respondent-appellee
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/RPY   # Responsible party
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/RSG   # Restager
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/REV   # Reviewer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/RBR   # Rubricator
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/SCE   # Scenarist
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/SAD   # Scientific advisor
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/SCR   # Scribe
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/SCL   # Sculptor
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/SPY   # Second party
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/SEC   # Secretary
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/STD   # Set designer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/SGN   # Signer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/SNG   # Singer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/SPK   # Speaker
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/SPN   # Sponsor
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/STN   # Standards body
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/STR   # Stereotyper
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/STL   # Storyteller
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/SRV   # Surveyor
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/TCH   # Teacher
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/THS   # Thesis advisor
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/TRC   # Transcriber
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/TRL   # Translator
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/TYD   # Type designer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/TYG   # Typographer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/VDG   # Videographer
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/VOC   # Vocalist
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/WIT   # Witness
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/WDE   # Wood-engraver
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/WDC   # Woodcutter
http://www.loc.gov/loc.terms/relators/WAM   # Writer of accompanying material
