
=head1 A Brief History of EPrints

The EPrints project was created by Professor Stephen Harnad.

=over 8

=item B<April 2000>

Rob Tansley begins work on EPrints

=item B<June 2000>

EPrints beta-1 released

Cogprints archive created. http://cogprints.soton.ac.uk/

=item B<September 2000>

EPrints beta-2 released

=item B<November 2000>

EPrints 1.0 released, contains OAI 0.2 support

Rob Tansley leaves the EPrints Project

Christopher Gutteridge joins the EPrints Project

=item B<January 2001>

EPrints 1.1 released, contains OAI 1.0 support

Work begins on EPrints 2

=item B<June 2001>

Mike Jewell joins EPrints, working primarily on installer software

=item B<August 2001>

EPrints 2 Alpha-1 (Anchovy) released.

=item B<Jan 2002>

EPrints 2 Alpha-2 (Pepperoni) released.

=item B<Feb 14 2002>

EPrints 2.0 (Olive) released.

=item B<Apr 17 2002>

EPrints 2.0.1 (Tuna) released. Mostly bugfixes.

=item B<July 1 2002>

EPrints offically joins GNU Project.

=item B<July 4 2002>

GNU EPrints 2.1 (Pineapple) released. Added subscriptions and OAI 2.0 support.

=item B<October 31 2002>

GNU EPrints 2.2 (Pumpkin) released. Added subject editors and GDOME support.

=item B<January 12 2004>

GNU EPrints 2.3.0 released.

=item B<February 5 2004>

GNU EPrints 2.3.1 released.

=item B<February 25 2004>

GNU EPrints 2.3.2 released.

=item B<March 4 2004>

GNU EPrints 2.3.3 released.

=item B<July 6 2004>

GNU EPrints 2.3.4 released.

=item B<August 6 2004>

GNU EPrints 2.3.5 released.

=item B<August 9 2004>

GNU EPrints 2.3.6 released.

=item B<November 25 2004>

GNU EPrints 2.3.7 released.

=back

