
<chapter><title>History, Plans and Related Information


=head1 A Brief History of EPrints

The EPrints project was created by Professor Stephen Harnad.

=over 8

=item B<April 2000>

Rob Tansley begins work on EPrints

=item B<June 2000>

EPrints beta-1 released

Cogprints archive created. http://cogprints.soton.ac.uk/

=item B<September 2000>

EPrints beta-2 released

=item B<November 2000>

EPrints 1.0 released, contains OAI 0.2 support

Rob Tansley leaves the EPrints Project

Christopher Gutteridge joins the EPrints Project

=item B<January 2001>

EPrints 1.1 released, contains OAI 1.0 support

Work begins on EPrints 2

=item B<June 2001>

Mike Jewell joins EPrints, working primarily on installer software

=item B<August 2001>

EPrints 2 Alpha-1 (Anchovy) released.

=back

=head1 The Road Ahead

At the time of writing the current plan of attack is as follows.

=over 8

=item B<EPrints 2 Beta-1 (Olive)>

Core system in beta - ie. metadata and filesystem. Still missing many scripts and auxilery features. A brave admin should be able to deploy this version and keep updating it.

=item B<EPrints 2 Beta-2 (Tomato)>

Whole system in beta - ie. It should all work now, but still has some unfixed bugs. No (very few) new features will be added after this point. Should be safe to use, but the code still will change a little between here and the actual official release.

=item B<EPrints 2.0 (Double Cheese)>

Whole system works. All documentation written. Phrases files have been translated into several languages. Several default setups available.

=back

=head2 Why do the milestones all have silly names?

We wanted to give each stage a name, it makes it easier to talk about. We didn't want a logical order as we are likely to invent sub-milestones between them. We just picked a set of words we liked, and we like pizza.


=head1 The EPrints logo

The Folder Jigsaw logo was created by Christopher Gutteridge. It was supposed to encompass "archives","documents", OAI, "skywriting", "modularity/extensibility" and the IAM research groups visual identity. 

The base version is a 684x668 XCF file (For the B<GIMP Editor>. You are welcome to modify it for your own archive, maybe have your own logo in the jigsaw.



