=head1 Installation

Unpack the eprints tar.gz file, and run the install-eprints.pl script, answer the questions it asks.

This will create a user and group called "eprints".

Edit your apache.conf in the way described by install-eprints.pl.

Unless you are not installing in /opt/eprints2/ the changes are in "httpd.conf":

Edit "User" and "Group" to be:

 User eprints
 Group eprints

And add the line:

 Include /opt/eprints2/cfg/apache.conf

=head1 Creating an archive

Make sure MySQL is actually running.

Change to  your eprints user (probably "eprints").

cd to the eprints directory (/opt/eprints2 by default) and run bin/configure_archive, answer the questions it asks.

Run

 bin/generate_apacheconf archiveid
 bin/generate_dtd archiveid
 bin/create_tables archiveid
 bin/import_subjects archiveid
 bin/generate_static archiveid
 bin/create_user archiveid userid email admin password

Where userid, email and password are your choice. you can create multiple users if you like. 'user' instead of 'staff' will give a user less privs.

Then restart your webserver: 

 /etc/rc.d/init.d/httpd stop
 /etc/rc.d/init.d/httpd start

Don't just use 'reload' or 'restart' as these do not force mod_perl to reload it's modules.

Now connect via the web and check it works...

=head1 Default Configuration

EPrints configures a  new archive with a set of metadata fields aimed at an archive of research papers. 

The initial "types" of eprint (book, poster, conference paper) are configured in metadata-types.xml

The initial subjects are just some we made up, they are not a recommendation. You will certainly want to change them.

Change it! It's not a recommended system setup, just a good starting point.

=head1 New Configurations

If you are setting up more than one archive which are related to each other, a "community", you may wish to establish common subjects and metadata.

Removing and adding types is easy. Removing and adding fields is a bit more work. All "screen" names of values are stored in the archives own "phrase file" which comes with phrases for the default config.

If you create a good default configuration for a different purpose or language(s) (and would like to share it), please contact the eprints admin who may want to put it online as an example or even include it as an alternate default in a later version.

A 


