=pod

=head1 EPrints RAE Module - SILVER RELEASE

What can the RAE Module do for your repository?

=over 4

=item 1. 

Provide a base for customising to your repository's specific RAE requirements

=item 2. 

Facilitate the gathering of evidence for RAE returns by allowing users to:

=over 4

=item * 

Record measures of esteem

=item * 

Select items from the repository

=item * 

Qualify each selected item for RAE return 

=back

And allowing unit managers/administrators to:

=over 4

=item * 

Carry out each of the above on behalf of a user (e.g. to adjudicate between two users selecting the same item)

=item * 

Identify and resolve problems with selections

=item * 

Produce reports in Word and Excel (RA2) format

=back

=back

=head1 INSTALLATION (EPrints 2)

=head2 1. Install scripts

 $ mkdir /opt/eprints2/cgi/users/rae/
 $ cp moe qualify report select /opt/eprints2/cgi/users/rae/
 $ cp create_rae_tables /opt/eprints2/bin/

=head2 2. Configuration files

The RAE module has 2 configuration files:

=over 4

=item F<ArchiveRAEConfig.pm>

configuration options and hooks

=item F<phrases-rae-en.xml>

english language phrases used in UI

=back

This provides a clean separation between RAE and normal EPrints configuration, but requires a little extra work to get the RAE configuration loaded.

For each archive:

 $ cp defaultcfg/ArchiveRAEConfig.pm defaultcfg/phrases-en.xml 
	/opt/eprints2/archives/ARCHIVEID/cfg/

To get the configuration loaded, edit F</opt/eprints2/archives/ARCHIVEID/cfg/ArchiveConfig.pm>

Add F<ArchiveRAEConfig.pm> to the list of configuration files loaded:

 32	foreach my $file (
	        "cfg/ArchiveOAIConfig.pm",
		"cfg/ArchiveRenderConfig.pm",
		"cfg/ArchiveValidateConfig.pm",
		"cfg/ArchiveTextIndexingConfig.pm",
		"cfg/ArchiveMetadataFieldsConfig.pm",
		"cfg/ArchiveRAEConfig.pm" )

 741	$c->{oai} = get_oai_conf( $c->{perl_url} );
	$c->{archivefields} = get_metadata_conf();
	$c->{rae} = get_rae_conf();

 823	$entities{version} = EPrints::Config::get( "version" );
	$entities{ruler} = EPrints::XML::to_string( $archive->get_ruler() );
	$entities{"raephrases SYSTEM"} = "phrases-rae-" . $langid . ".xml";

	return %entities;

Edit F</opt/eprints2/archives/ARCHIVEID/cfg/phrases-en.xml> and add the raephrases entity:

 1	<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1" standalone="no" ?>
	<!DOCTYPE phrases SYSTEM "entities-en.dtd">

	<ep:phrases xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
		xmlns:ep="http://eprints.org/ep2/phrases">

	&raephrases;

Restart apache to load in the new RAE configuration:

 $ service httpd restart

I<Line numbers based on 2.3.13.1>

=head2 3. Create database tables

The database tables used by the RAE module in this release are dependant on configuration settings, rather like EPrints datasets.

The structure of the tables depend on which fields are needed in the Measures of Esteem and Qualify Selection forms.

A command line script has been provided to generate these tables:

 $ /opt/eprints2/bin/create_rae_tables ARCHIVEID

=head2 4. Add links to User Area page

Edit F</opt/eprints2/cgi/users/home>

The C<$tools> array (line 96) allows you to describe links that should appear in the User Area.

Each link has 4 properties:

=over 4

=item location

the location on the page. The User Area is split into four areas: create (top left), user (top right), review (middle), staff (bottom)

=item code

the id of the phrase to use in rendering the link

=item page

the URL

=item priv

the link will only be shown if the user has this priviledge

=back

The following links are a suggested starting point:

 {
	location=>"user",
	code=>"rae_moe",
	page=>"rae/moe",
	priv=>"deposit"
 },
 {
	location=>"user",
	code=>"rae_select",
	page=>"rae/select",
	priv=>"deposit"
 },
 {
	location=>"user",
	code=>"rae_report",
	page=>"rae/report",
	priv=>"editor"
 },

Default english language phrases for these links are defined in F<phrases-rae-en.xml>

=head1 INSTALLATION (EPrints 3)

=head2 1. Install scripts

 $ mkdir /opt/eprints3/cgi/users/rae/
 $ cp moe qualify report select /opt/eprints3/cgi/users/rae/
 $ cp create_rae_tables /opt/eprints3/bin/
 $ mkdir /opt/eprints3/perl_lib/EPrints/Plugin/Screen/User/RAE/
 $ cp plugins/User/RAE/* /opt/eprints3/perl_lib/EPrints/Plugin/Screen/User/RAE/
 $ cp plugins/Admin/RAEReport.pm /opt/eprints3/perl_lib/EPrints/Plugin/Screen/Admin/

=head2 2. Configuration files

The RAE module has 2 configuration files:

=over 4

=item F<rae.pl>

configuration options and hooks

=item F<rae.xml>

english language phrases used in UI

=back

For each archive:

 $ cp defaultcfg/rae.pl /opt/eprints3/archives/ARCHIVEID/cfg/cfg.d/

 $ cp defaultcfg/rae.xml /opt/eprints3/archives/ARCHIVEID/cfg/lang/en/phrases/

Restart apache to load in the new RAE configuration:

 $ service httpd restart

=head2 3. Create database tables

The database tables used by the RAE module in this release are dependant on configuration settings, rather like EPrints datasets.

The structure of the tables depend on which fields are needed in the Measures of Esteem and Qualify Selection forms.

A command line script has been provided to generate these tables.

Edit /opt/eprints3/bin/create_rae_tables and change the first line from:

 #!/usr/bin/perl -w -I/opt/eprints2/perl_lib

to

 #!/usr/bin/perl -w -I/opt/eprints3/perl_lib

To generate the tables, run:

 $ /opt/eprints3/bin/create_rae_tables ARCHIVEID

Ignore error messages.

=head1 CONFIGURATION

The F<ArchiveRAEConfig.pm> and F<phrases-rae-en.xml> files provide a general configuration. It is likely that these files will need fine tuning to meet the specific requirements of your institution.

B<NOTE: After making changes to a configuration file, you must reload the configuration via force_config_reload or by restarting apache.>

=head2 1. Changing the text that appears one or more of the RAE module pages

Locate the phrase in F<phrases-rae-*.xml> and make required changes.

=head2 2. Changing the fields that are displayed on the measures of esteem or qualify selection forms

Locate the C<$c-E<gt>{fields}-E<gt>{moe}> (measures of esteem fields) or C<$c-E<gt>{fields}-E<gt>{qualify}> (qualify fields) structure in F<ArchiveRAEConfig.pm>.

Add or remove fields as required. The addition of new fields requires the phrases C<rae_fieldname_FIELDNAME> and C<rae_fieldhelp_FIELDNAME> to be defined in F<phrases-rae-*.xml>. 

See http://www.eprints.org/documentation/tech/php/metadata.php for available types, although note that B<only single-value, single-part fields are currently supported>.

If new fields have been added, the RAE module database tables must be regenerated. If the tables contain no valuable data, drop them and rerun F<create_rae_tables>. Otherwise, the additional fields need to be added manually; see http://wiki.eprints.org/w/Adding_a_Field_to_a_Live_Repository.

=head2 3. Changing the search form on the select items page

By default, the RAE plugin uses the C<advanced> search, as specified in F<ArchiveConfig.pm>.

To use a different search instead, change the C<selection_search> option in F<ArchiveRAEConfig.pm>, e.g.:

 $c->{selection_search} = "simple";

 # if you want to design a search specifically for the RAE module
 $c->{selection_search} = "rae"; 

=head2 4. Changing the way the default search is populated

When users visit the Select Items page, the "Available items" that they see are the results of a search. By default, this search looks for items whose creators include the user (or at least have a matching surname) and which were effective from 2001.

To use different search parameters instead, change the C<rae_default_selection_search> hook.

=head2 5. Changing the way that users are grouped on the Reports page

By default, users are grouped according to the value of the C<dept> (department) field.

To use a different field, change the C<group_reports_by> value in F<ArchiveRAEConfig.pm>, e.g.:

 # if you've added unit of assessment info to the user records..
 $c->{group_reports_by} = "rae_unit";

=head2 6. Changing the way that problems are identified and reported on the Reports page

By default, a problem is recognised when:

=over 4

=item * 

one or more users have selected the same item

=item * 

the selected item does not have a full text attached

=item * 

one or more fields required for the RA2 report are missing

=back

In each case a link is provided to help unit managers resolve the problem:

=over 4

=item * 

Edit selection: the unit manager can edit the user's selection

=item * 

Edit item: the unit manager can upload a full text or bounce the item back to the user who selected it requesting that they upload the full text

=item * 

Edit item: the unit manager can enter the missing data or bounce the item back to the user who selected it requesting that they add the missing data

=back

To add a new problem definition, edit the C<rae_problems_with_selection> hook in F<ArchiveRAEConfig.pm>.

=head2 7. Changing the way that the CSV output is produced

The F<ArchiveRAEConfig.pm> file contains 3 hooks for producing CSV output:

=over 4

=item C<rae_print_csv_header>

called once at the beginning of the output to produce the header row(s). 

By default produces the RA2 header (see http://www.rae.ac.uk/datacoll/import/excel/RAE2008Data.xls - March 2006).

=item C<rae_print_csv_row>

called for every item selected by a user

=item C<rae_print_csv_footer>

called once at the end of the output to produce the footer row(s)

=back

To change the way that the CSV output is produced, change these hooks.

B<NOTE: use the _rae_escape_csv helper function to format a list of values as a CSV row.>

=head2 8. Customising the RA2 output

The default configuration produces RA2-compatible output, based on the default EPrints fields and RAE guidelines.

=item C<ra2_fields_for_type>

This setting defines how the default EPrints fields map to the RA2 output description fields.

See: Guidance on the data requirements of the output description fields on form RA2 Research outputs
http://www.rae.ac.uk/datacoll/subs/RAE2008RA2DescriptionFieldsGuideV2.xls (August 2006)

Locally defined fields should be inserted as appropriate.

=item C<rae_get_ra2_type>

This hook determines the appropriate RA2 type for an EPrint record.

The following mappings are available by default:

 EPrint Type					RA2 Type

 Book (where creators field is set)		A (Authored book)
 Book (where creators field is not set)		B (Edited book)
 Book Section					C (Chapter in book)
 Article					D (Journal article)
 Conference Item				E (Conference contribution)
 Patent						F (Patent/published patet application)

Locally defined types should be mapped as appropriate.

=head2 9. Allowing some users to enter data/make selections on behalf of others

By default, anyone with the appropriate priviledges can edit another user's measures of esteem or selections.

Example: A secretary needs to enter measures of esteem/selections on behalf of academics in the Maths department.

Use the C<rae_can_user_assume_role> and C<rae_roles_for_user> hook to add this rule:

 sub can_user_assume_role {
	       
	my ( $session, $user, $role ) = @_;

        return 1 if $user->has_priv( "staff-view" );
	
	return 0 if !defined $role;

	# Secretary is user 123
	return 1 if $user->get_id eq "123" 
		&& $role->get_value( "dept" ) eq "maths";

	return 0;
 };

 sub roles_for_user {

	my ( $session, $user ) = @_;

	if( $user->get_id eq "123" )
	{
		my @roles;

		# Search for all the users in the maths department
		my $searchexp = new EPrints::SearchExpression(
			session => $session,
			custom_order => "name",
			dataset => $session->get_archive->get_dataset( "user" ),
		);
		$searchexp->add_field( $session->get_archive->
			get_dataset( "user" )->get_field( "dept" ) , "maths" );
		$searchexp->perform_search;
		foreach ( $searchexp->get_records ) {
			push @roles, [ $_->get_id, 
			EPrints::Utils::tree_to_utf8( $_->render_description ) ];
		}
		return @roles;
	}

	return ();
 }

Now when the secretary views the "Measures of Esteem" and "Select Items" pages, they will be presented a list of users on whose behalf they can enter data/make selections.

=head2 10. Alternative to #9

Alternatively, the secretary could use the User Search facility to find specific users. Clicking on a search result page takes them to a View User page listing all the user details (so it can be verified that this is the right user).

Create a new user type called C<raeuser> which is based on the normal C<user> type but has one extra priviledge (C<staff-view>) by editing 

F</opt/eprints2/archives/ARCHIVEID/cfg/ArchiveConfig.pm>:

 637	$c->{userauth} = {
		user => {
			auth  => $CRYPTED_DBI,
			priv  =>  [ "subscription", "set-password", "deposit", 
				"change-email", "change-user" ] },
		raeuser => {
			auth  => $CRYPTED_DBI,
			priv  =>  [ "subscription", "set-password", "deposit", 
				"change-email", "change-user", "staff-view" ] },

An administrator then needs to edit the secretary's user record to make them an "raeuser" by using the User Search and then Edit User.

When the secretary logs in, the "User Search" option will now be available from their User Area page. The secretary can now search for and view the user records for the academics; adding links to the "View User" page will also allow the secretary to edit their measures of esteem and selections.

Edit F</opt/eprints2/archives/ARCHIVEID/cfg/ArchiveRenderConfig.pm> and change the C<user_render_full> subroutine:

 577	sub user_render_full
	{
		...

 635		$info->appendChild( $table );

		my $perl_url = $session->get_archive->get_conf( "perl_url" );

		my $moe_link = $session->render_link( 
			"$perl_url/users/rae/moe?role=" . $user->get_id );
		$moe_link->appendChild( $session->html_phrase( 
			"cgi/users/staff/view_user:rae_moe_link" ) );
		$info->appendChild( $moe_link );

		$info->appendChild( $session->make_element( "br" ) );

		my $select_link = $session->render_link( 
			"$perl_url/users/rae/select?role=" . $user->get_id );
		$select_link->appendChild( $session->html_phrase( 
			"cgi/users/staff/view_user:rae_select_link" ) );
		$info->appendChild( $select_link );

		return $info;
	}

Default english language phrases for these links are defined in F<phrases-rae-en.xml>.
